---
title: "Glossary of terms"
description: "See a list of special terms used in the Dynamics GP content for web deployment."
keywords: "web components"
author: edupont04
ms.author: edupont
manager: annbe
applies_to: 
ms.date: 09/05/2018
ms.prod: dynamics-gp
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 965a21e2-c104-4bd2-9982-f66fec30a934
ms.reviewer: 
---
# Glossary

Directory Account

A directory account is a Windows Account or Organizational Account mapped to GP users.

Externally signed certificate

A security certificate that was issued by a third-party certificate provider. These certificates are used in production environments for the web client.

Multiple domain certificate

A type of security certificate that is issued for a set of named machines. The names of the machines must be specified at the time the security certificate is purchased.

Sandboxed mode

A mode for the Silverlight application that restricts the access to local system resources.

See Trusted mode.

Scale out

A web client configuration that has multiple session host machines on which Dynamics GP web client sessions are run.

Self-signed certificate

A security certificate that is generated by IIS for a specific machine. These certificates are free, but have significant limitations. These certificates are used in test environments for the web client.

Session Hosts

The server machines that run sessions of the Dynamics GP web client.

Session Central Service

The service that control communication between the web site and the session host machines.

Session Service

The service that runs on each session host machine and manages the process that is created each time a user logs into the web client.

Single domain certificate

A type of security certificate that is issued for a specific machine. The name of the machine must be specified at the time the security certificate is purchased.

Subject Alternative Name (SAN)

The set of machine names associated with a security certificate. When you use a security certificate, you must specify the SAN that will be used for the certificate.

Trusted mode

A mode for the Silverlight application that allows less restricted access to local system resources. Some features of the Dynamics GP web client require that the application is running in trusted mode.

See Sandboxed mode.

Web Client Runtime

A component of the Dynamics GP installation. A web client runtime process is created by the Session Service each time a user logs into the web client.

Web Management Console

A Silverlight application that is used to perform administrative tasks for the Dynamics GP web client.

Wildcard certificate

A type of security certificate that is issued for a domain, rather than for a specific machine. The specific machine name is specified at the time the certificate is used. Wildcard certificates are the most flexible, but also the most expensive.
